# FINAL PROJECT - CodeConnect FORUM

CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION:
- https://certificates.cs50.io/aaaffd50-e5f2-4ebb-9ced-8b299be0c64f.pdf?size=letter

# Distinctiveness and Complexity
This project was developed with topics that were introduced in CS50 Web Programming with Python and Javascript, but went ahead deeper in django and react  to use in an advanced manner the manipulation of data batween applications (backend and frontend). 

This project is a forum for students, so they can be informed of topics related to technology such as web development, big data, data science etc. The student will choose their preffered topics in the profile section of the app.

To access the main content of the forum you need to be registered, otherwise, you will only be able to access the login and signup forms.

The website is like a social media but with a twist. There's no interacion between users, so there's no distractions from the objective of the forum, TO INFORM. 

You can access: 
- 'Home' where you will find all posts in the forum made by the admin (made by the default django admin site)
  - As a student, you can like, dislike and comment on every post for every topic.
  - One click away to filter by the topic you preffer.
- 'My Feed' where you will find only posts that match the categories you already follow.
  - same functionalities as in the "Home" tab but with filtered posts.  
- 'Community' where you will find access to the student question posting mechanism, aswell as posts made by other users. You won't know who published what, only on the comments you will be able to see who commented on the post. 
- 'My profile' where you will be able to follow categories aswell as view how many likes, dislikes and comments you've made throughout the application.
- 'Log out' will log you out of your computer, aswell as from the database

### What do I mean? 
When you signup or login to the webpage you get a knox token which will be associated to your user. When you register or login, that token will be saved to your pc aswell to the database to authenticate if this user is logged in. When you log out, the knox token associated with this user, will be removed from the database. In this case, you wont be able to view the contents of the forum, you'll have to sign in.

## Whats contained in each file

In the root directory, you will find 3 folders:

1. api: This folder contains the app that works as an API to visualize the data stored in db.sqlite3 file. 

I created the urls.py (for the api endpoints) and serializers.py (to transform the data into a JSON readble for the frontent) files. 

Also created all the models used in the forum in the models.py file. 

2. forum: This folder is the project's folder. Not much changed here.

3. frontend: In this folder lives the react app created for the frontend of the project. Using Node.js to apply multiple libraries to the project.

To be able to run this app, you need to have Node.js installed in your computer.

  - node_modules: contains all node modules and packages for the proper functioning of the forum.
  - public: contains the public files automatically generated by create-react-app command
  - src: contains the body of the frontend
    - components: contains the jsx elements that are react components.
    - containers: contains the jsx elements that that work as a container of components.
    - pages: contains the jsx elements that are rendered through the routes app file.
    - router: contains the app.js file which hosts he router powered by react-router-dom.
    - styles: contains all the styles used for frontend styling
    - index.js: the default js file that runs and renders the whole application.
  - .gitignore: which contains which files won't be saved to the git repo.
  - package-lock.json: info about the node project.
  - package.json: all the node dependencies installed for the frontend.
  - README.md: generated by npx create-recact-app

#### I used this approach to have a more modular frontend application and to be able to modify the code without breaking it.

aswell as:

- db.sqlite3
- manage.py 
- README.md
- requirements.txt

## THE BACKEND:
#### The project's back-end was developed in Django, using SQLite as a database, Django Rest Framework for API's management, Knox for user's security and Django Cors Headers to be able to access the API from a different server (localhost:3000 <- frontend's server).

To properly run the API, you need to install the following pip packages:
- pip install -r requirements.txt

Make and apply migrations:
- py manage.py makemigrations
- py manage.py migrate

create a superuser to add posts as an admin through the [admin route](http://localhost:8000/admin):
- py manage.py createsuperuser

### To run the API, run the next command from the root directory of this repo:

- py manage.py runserver

## THE FRONTEND:

#### Developed with React for the UI and Nodejs for the libraries and packages.

To properly run the frontend environment, you'll first need to install [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) in your device. Then navigate with youtr favorite terminal to the 'frontend' folder in the root of this project.

Once in the 'frontend' folder, run the following commands to install the libraries and packages:

- npm i (installs every dependency listed in the package.json file needed to run the frontend)

### To run the front-end, run the next command from the 'frontend' directory of this repo:

- npm start


